(soft wind)
(tranquil strum)
In many ways,
life has changed little over thousands of years.
We still conduct our daily rituals
and walk among buildings
who's faces reflect the past.
We still wake up, we eat, drink
we go to work,
and we still ask ourselves that timeless question,
why am I here?
But what we tend to hear back
is that we have lost our connection
to the nature of things.
Just like the mystery of life,
the journey you're about to take
is also timeless.
An initiation into ancient systems of knowledge
once used by high priests, shaman, and Pharohs
in their sanctuaries.
And that knowledge can be applied
in our sanctuaries today.
Temples come in all shapes and forms,
tall, small, hidden,
unobtrusive,
subtle, and overt.
But they all share one common characteristic.
Everyone is a sacred space of subtle, living energy
created using identical principles
that have no expire date.
In this program,
we will discover the principles
that harness subtle energies
and create portals of possibility
in our own daily lives.
And in doing so,
we shall increase the potential
to live our lives as co-creators.
(rock beat)
(birds chirping)
There's one important characteristic
that differentiates us from our predecessors,
those who came before possessed a greater understanding
of the forces that shape our world.
They discovered that everything that works in life
is based on a sympathetic relationship
with universal laws.
In addition to measuring the cycle of seasons,
and the movement of stars,
their prime motivation was the creation
of a closer bond with the unseen universe.
They reasoned by that transposing
specific cosmic principles on earth,
they could ride away with energy
that connected them to the heart of everything.
The Egyptians called it, as above so below.
This spiritual technology opened doorways
to other levels of reality.
Offering them greater understanding
of the environment as well as control over their lives.
And so they embarked on a colossal building program
setting up antennas around the world
to communicate with the invisible universe.
Wherever these were placed,
balance was restored to the land.
And people who interacted with these sanctuaries
became atoned, that is at one
with the visible end of the invisible.
Consequently ancient cultures functioned
with greater stability because they were working with
rather than against the subtle machinery of nature.
With these temples, they created portals of power
across the face of the earth.
And their perseverance is our legacy.
(synthesizer with piano chords)
Rediscovering and applying their principles
in our modern life has become more urgent than ever.
Increasingly divorced from the natural world,
we struggle to find answers to why our lives
seem so rudderless.
Indeed our generation is shrouded in a kind of
spiritual deficit sorta.
A lack of connection with natural forces
the very forces that exist for our guidance.
And ultimately for our survival.
We must rediscover the lost art of temple making
to create sanctuaries where we and the universe
can engage in intimate dialog.
Our very own places of elimination,
communication, and transformation.
But what exactly makes sacred space different
from profane space?
(rock beat)
Our ancestors understood that life is based
on the principle of harmonic resonance.
It is a view now shared by the
enlightened scientific community.
This cosmic rhythm and balance
binds all atoms and molecules.
It underlies all that exists.
Such a concept is enshrined in the
esoteric branch of Islam
which seized the primary creative source,
not as a human form or icon, but as
orderly geometric relationships.
In fact, they describe these geometric patterns
as the image of god at rest.
Our predecessors also understood
that all living organisms generate a resonance.
And the vitality of every organism
depends on the level of connection between
it's resonance and that of its local environment.
Thus if a sympathetic resonance exists between the two,
then a bond is established.
And information is exchanged.
In the field of human affairs,
we refer to this as falling in love.
But since we tend to live in a state of duality
here on earth,
we invent a separation between physical and the non-physical
the human ego plus an over association
with the material world inevitably leads to a disconnection
with the forces we do not see,
which paradoxically are integral to our lives.
And so we become diseased with our environment.
Scientifically speaking, the resonance between our molecules
and our environment becomes unbalanced.
Our inner geometry enters a state of chaos.
It can be said that we go from being well
to being in hell.
And it's a fine line between the two.
In such an imbalanced enviroment
we short circuit our natural ability
to connect and work with the subtle forces around us.
Through the ages, these forces have been
described as angels, fairies, spirits.
Even god.
But regardless of how we describe it,
in such a state of separation,
we lessened our ability to manifest
what we require and achieve our purpose
in this life.
Such concepts form the basis of esoteric studies
taught in ancient history schools.
Particularly those of Egypt.
Their principles were deemed so important
to the purposeful conduct of life,
that they were zealously guarded
by later esoteric traditions such as the Cathar Muslims,
the knights Templars, the Bogomils, and early Freemason
who defended them at the enormous personal cost.
The goal of these esoteric orders was one and the same.
Reestablish a sympathetic resonance with the
cosmic forces that harness all aspects of energy
and conscious manifestation.
In other words, be a co-creator.
This goal was accomplished by applying specific principles
that generated the resonant environment
with which one was able to interact.
One technique was to apply natural harmonics
in the arrangement of elements
within the temple.
Another was to use the energy of water.
Even lines of magnetic force were moved to the sight.
Stones and crystals were specifically choosen
to anchor these streams of energy.
And to amplify the intent of each temple.
Certain parts of the temple were
designed to awaken principle energy radiums
of the human body.
This enabled a person's energy field
to be opened slowly.
Allowing finer, more penetrating frequencies
to influence the body.
As you can see to regard these oracles
as mere places of worship is to do an injustice
to the genius to the temple builders.
Clearly these monuments were meant for something
other than worship.
in fact their ancient semetic name is Beth Arod,
meaning a house of work.
Therefore these temples were not used for worship,
but workship, they were workshops
places of initiation into the sacred arts.
In parts of the Iberian peninsula,
they are called Betillo meaning
a house of god.
yet it stretches the imagination
to see these as houses.
From the spirit of the purpose
for which they were built.
The name implies a place of connecting
with the source of creation.
Some of these houses are over 8,000 years old.
The wisdom keepers at these temples
were masters of the craft.
By 1300 BC, their main center
was in the Egyptian city of Honna.
Today reduced to a solid three obelisk,
amid noisy Cairo.
The roots of the craft of the free masons are found here.
Such wisdom keepers were described as cunning.
A word stemming from the old English kynning,
meaning knowing special, esoteric knowledge.
So next time someone calls you a cunning person,
be sure to thank them.
Their interdimensional doorways were built to last.
An insurance policy for a time when we
as a society, would lose our connection
to the unseen and overassociate
with the material world.
And that time is now.
Some portals have been in continuous use
for thousands of years.
Like Glastonbury, it remained places of pilgrimmage
as though people still understand and resonate
with their underlying purpose.
Consciously or otherwise.
Because sacred sites were strategically positioned
to take advantage of the subtle forces
inherent in the land,
many would later become seats of centralized power.
As a predominant experience of humanity
swung from cooperation and unity to control and fear.
The tower of London is one such example.
Strategically placed on an ancient mound
by William the Conqueror,
one of the last kings to understand
the principles of manipulating portals of energy.
By imposing his intent on this portal,
he was able to subjugate an entire nation.
Originally named for the Egyptian goddess Isis,
Paris is an excellent example of temple making
on a grand scale.
The city is fashioned on the ground plan
of the temples of Luxor and Carmac.
And upon visiting, there's no doubt
there's an air of connectivity with higher principles
permeates this city of romance.
Like Paris, Washington DC was originally planned
by Freemasonic orders who applied the principles
of sacred geometry.
The intent was to create a universal city
that nurtured the noblest principles of humanity.
So obviously this technology can be used and abused.
After all, energy is simply energy.
And human intent being one of the most powerful
creative energies can choose to use it for
wrong action...
or for right action.
To remind us just how far we have misplaced
our connection to the Sacred,
11,000 crop circles have mysteriously appeared
beside ancient sacred sites in 29 countries.
This phenomenon has been appearing
for over 100 years.
In South Africa, they are referred to
as the great circles of the gods.
Perhaps the spirits of our ancestors
are sending a message because the same principles
once employed to create their temples,
are now found and coded in these enigmatic symbols.
Because the principles of sacred space
work as well as they did 8,000 years ago,
they can easily be applied to today in our
modern environments to enhance our well-being
and that of the earth.
By applying the seven principles of sacred space,
you will be able to create an environment of subtle
energies that enable you to connect and communicate
more effectively with invisible forces.
Such as sacred space can be used for receiving information
or guidance.
To create a temple that amplifies your energy
and multiplies the potential of your own power.
Thereby aiding your own conscious manifestation process.
To establish an environment that heals and rejuvenates
the body and the mind.
For the more ambitious,
the principles of sacred space
can be applied on a grand scale.
Groups of like minded people
can create temples to facilitate
the forces of light, across a large tract of land.
Even an entire city.
Or simply to create a sanctuary in a room
a work space or a garden
where one can be at ease with the world.
Many formal European gardens
were designed with principles taught at this program.
So it is not surprising how they still attract
millions of visitors.
Temples can be very simple.
They can be part of the landscape.
They can be functional yet unobtrusive.
Some of the principles at work at Stone hedge
are discretely employed within this small urban apartment.
Later in this program,
we shall discover how.
All temples are built on a foundation
of principles that are analogous
to their host environment.
In this case, the planet earth.
And the more processes are applied,
the greater the connection between you
your environment, and all levels of reality.
So let us now look at each of the seven principles
of sacred space.
(rock music)
Now let's begin to construct our very own portal
of possibility by selecting a desired location
and examining the first principle.
Water covers two thirds of the body of the planet.
Coincidentally, this mysterious element
makes up two thirds of the human body.
This makes water a fundamental ingredient in temples
because it mirrors those who benefit the most
from their use.
That water interacts with the forces shaping the universe
is demonstrated by the way an object
traveling through it creates a wake of
approximately 94.7 degrees.
This is the same angle at which
energy rises from the core of a planet
and manifests on the surface as the most active spot.
On earth, this is evidenced by the Hawaiian volcanoes
which sit at 19.47 degrees of latitude.
The same concept is found on other planets
throughout the solar system.
When water interacts with humans,
interesting things occur.
Being two thirds water, the human body
and its electromagnetic field plus the resonance
of its intent, make for a powerful combination.
As observed during rain ceremonies
conducted by shaman in New Mexico
and the Middle East,
water reacts to such a formula.
In laboratory experiments,
this interaction is both measurable
and dramatic.
Here the crystallized structure of Tap water
shows a significant difference before and after contact
with the photo of an affectionate child.
In another experiment,
using identical waters,
the phrases I love you and I will kill you
were written on separate bottles
which focused intent.
The comparative results
revealed the effect of such contrasting energies
and demonstrates the power and influence
of human intent on matter.
Hardly surprising therefore that old temples
are sited above or beside water.
Even in places where it is not immediately obvious
such as in the deserts of Egypt and Arizona
where vents of water are at work beneath the temples
generating a subtle electromagnetic field.
The tradition of honoring water at sacred sites
continues today through the use of holy wells
and fonts of water in all the churches.
Such water possesses greater properties of spin
and absorbs light to a greater degree
than ordinary water.
Such potentized liquid makes an excellent conductor
of energy.
So the first element in temple making
is the vetter vains of underground water
to the location where you wish to build your temple.
This procedure applies regardless if your temple
is on the ground.
Or 50 stories above it.
To achieve this we use the law of attraction.
We focus our attention and then apply
our intention.
Focusing your attention allows your atoms
to consciously connect with the atoms
of the object in mind.
In this case, water.
And the recognition takes place
between the two.
Your intention gives energy to this connection.
So that action can take place.
Send your attention out to all streams
of natural water below the soil around you.
Now use your intention to draw that water
to the location of your temple.
Reinforce it by visualizing the water
trickling like ribbons through the soil
and towards the temple.
And as you hold this image,
say out loud, by my conscious intent
I ask that natural streams of water
be drawn to this location.
For the purpose of creating a temple of light
for the highest good of the local spirit,
and for the highest good of all.
You can choose your own words
but be very very specific in your request.
It is done.
The conviction of your intent together with the belief
and acceptance that you have stirred a conscious
act into motion are key to the success of this
or any operation.
Water will start a trickle to the location instantly.
And since water has to travel around physical objects,
such as rocks and soil, the process will continue to build
and settle over the course of several days.
Trust the process.
Belief and acceptance in your ability
as a co-creator are key to the success of this endeavor.
The second principle of temple making
is magnetism.
To ancient eyes and indeed to anyone
with a developed sense of intuition,
the landscape we inhabit looks a little different.
It is full of eddies and spirals of energy.
In southern Britain, the canical mound of Silbury Hill
marks and accentuates once such spiraling
motion of energy.
It seems at form follows function.
But there is another form that moves
through the land.
Pathways of magnetic energy
the ancients called them spirit roads
serpent lines, and dragons.
Throughout Celtic lands they are still called
fairy paths and heaven help you,
if you block their flow with a gate or a wall
because doing so interrupts the flow
of living energy to the land and all who live there.
They curve through valleys, mountain tops,
woods, and streams, houses, and villages.
Like an electric circuit,
the magnetic lines are positively or negatively charged.
Or to put it another way,
they are masculine or feminine in polarity.
Since they are magnetic,
they enable the sending and receiving
of bits of information between points
including planets.
Perhaps even further.
In a way, they behave like interstellar conveyor belts
Balls of light or structured craft are often seen
along these pathways and so they are used for traveling,
in a wider sense of the word.
Not surprisingly, all temples without exception,
are situated at the cross roads
of these invisible paths of magnetic energy.
Across southern Britain, there exists an alignment
of ancient temples, standing stones,
Celtic Christian churches, Gothic Cathedrals,
and other sacred sites, and all of them are found
along two major trimitires of this energy.
Some even mark the exact position of the serpent
and its energy node.
What is curious is that all of them
are dedicated to a deity that reflects
the gember of the magnetic path
upon which they stand.
In the case of churches,
those built on the male path
are dedicated to the Archangel Michael
or his modern counterpart, St. George.
Those on the female path
are dedicated to Mary or her mother, Ann.
Thus these two magnetic lines become known
as the Michael and Mary lines.
Many of the newer temples also stand
on top of old neolithic or druid sites.
An identical situation exists across much of Europe.
The head of the dragon begins its journey
along a lonely island in the Atlantic Ocean.
Appropriately named Skellig Michael.
Atop of which, there are Celtic and neolithic chapels.
Its tale concludes at the plate of Megido in Israel.
Better known today as Armageddon.
Clearly there is an implied warning
in this coincidence.
And correct use of these pathways of energy
could have disastrous consequences for the world.
Why is this magnetic energy so important in tintle making?
The answer lies in the effects of magnetism
on the human body.
There exists substantial deposits of magnetite
in the human brain.
Small changes in the local magnetic field
can alter its state of perception.
Magnetism can also vibrate the pineal gland
causing a chemical reaction in the brain
which leads to altered states of awareness.
In this state, a person is more capable
of perceiving information from more
subtle levels of reality.
This concept is symbolized by the raised cobra
placed on a pharaoh's brow.
The location of the third eye shakra.
The raised cobra not only mimics the raised pineal,
but since it no longer slides along the ground,
it shows that the Pharaoh no longer identifies
his existence purely with material forces.
Like the vulture beside it,
he now flies above his incarnate body,
raised toward the sky and spiritualized.
Magnetism also stimulates the human body
by influencing the particles of iron contained in blood.
Like water, incorporating the snaking magnetic paths
in the temple is both practical and empowering.
Eating the fruits of this wisdom
allows you to work with natural energy
and connect with spirit.
And since this process does not
require a middleman, it once drove
the Roman Catholic church to concoct
the association between the serpent and evil.
In Sacred sights, magnetism and water are intertwined.
Because magnetism is attracted to water.
Since we have already moved water
to the site of our proposed temple,
the process of attracting a magnetic line
is made that much simpler.
Let us apply the law of attraction.
Sent out your attention to all magnetic lines.
Imagine these as ribbons flowing along the land.
Now use your intention to draw in
all appropriate magnetic lines.
Reinforce this by visualizing them
moving toward your temple.
And as you hold this image,
say out loud, by my conscious intent,
I ask that the earth's lines of magnetic energy
be drawn to this location for the purpose
of creating a temple of light for the highest good
of the local spirit and for the highest good of all.
Again you can choose your own words,
but be very very specific in your request.
Assuming the request is appropriate,
one or more magnetic lines are vected
instantaneously, you should find that the change
in the local landscape is both immediate
and measurable through dosing.
Those that are more sensitive will feel a rise
in temperature, or a tingle in the lower arms.
Some may even feel off-balance,
as if pushed aside by an invisible hand.
Now that we have attracted two essential elements
to our temple in progress,
we can being to define the exact space of the temple.
The third principle of temple making
is sacred measure.
Because a portal is essentially a microcosm of all
universal forces at work in one place,
applying a punitive measure that is derived
from the very particles of which that is based,
will generate another level of resonance
with cosmic forces.
So as you might guess,
the temple builders didn't settle for some
ordinarily unitive measure when it came
to constructing their buildings.
To understand how they arrive at
creating the perfect unitive measure of the temples,
let's take a look at how the universe is constructed.
The primary building blocks of matter
are the sphere and the tetrohedron.
They are the glue of the universe.
When a tetra hedron is circumscribed within a sphere,
the surface areas of these two geometric solids
are in proportion to each other by a ratio of 2.72.
This paring of the sphere and the tetrahedron
is seen on earth is seen as the most essential
chemical substance to all life, water.
Water is made up from the bond of
hydrogen and oxygen molecules.
And the distance between these molecules
measures precisely 2.72 angstroms.
This numerical ratio 2.72 is also found
in the values representing the sun and the moon.
Without which, life on earth would be slightly difficult.
The solar year consists of 365.242 days.
By comparison, the lunar year is just
354.367 days.
The difference between the two is 10.875 days.
If you divide this number by the full lunar month
of 29.53 days,
you get 2.7154,
reduced to two decimal places as 2.72.
It seems then that this numerical value 2.72
exists at many levels of reality.
it can be said to be a trans-dimensional constant.
It stands to reason that a unitive measure
derive from such relationships
not only establishes a connection to the elements
that make up the universe,
it also creates a bond with the earth itself.
And the megalithic temple builders
employ such a unit.
It is called the megalithic yard.
And it is precisely 2.72 feet.
The megalithic yard was the system of measure
employed in ancient temples, particularly the stone circles
of the Celtic world.
Let us now return to the place that we have designated
as our future temple.
If you will recall, we have already vetted larger
magnetic energy and also vents of underground water
to the area.
Let us now apply the megalithic yard
as the physical foundation of our modern day temple.
For the purpose of this demonstration,
we're going to create a simple circular temple.
We begin by measuring a radius with three megalithic yards.
That's three units of 2.72 feet.
Obviously it is not easy to accurately measure
in units of 2.72 feet, even though it translates roughly
to 33-inches.
But we wish to be a precise as possible.
So this is where intent helps.
Measure out the radius of your temple,
as accurately as you can.
Then using your intent,
focus on the precise number
you are trying to physically measure.
This compensates for any discrepancy
in the physical.
How can this be so.
Well your intent is electro magnetic.
Therefor its resonance is super physical.
In other words, the vibration of intent
supersedes anything that exists in gross physical form.
The success of the outcome is amplified
by the power of your belief.
And the more you believe, the more your thought
is given form in reality.
That is the power of human intent.
Using the megalithic yard as the foundation of our temple,
means that from now on, any structure we create
within this space, will be influenced
by the harmonics of this measure.
As well as its connection to universal forces.
Now that we have defined a specific area for a temple,
we must direct those water and magnetic lines
already in the general vicinity
into our portal in progress.
And that brings us to the fourth principle of temple making.
Because of their nature, magnetic lines are influenced
by terrestrial and solar events.
And so they constantly meander about the land
like serpents, hence their traditional association
with things that slither.
So in ancient times,
if you wanted to facilitate a meeting place
for cosmic and terrestrial forces,
it became necessary to root this energy to this spot.
In essence you'd be performing a kind of earth acupuncture.
And the way it was done was by programming stone.
And not just any kind of stone mind you.
When you examine sacred sites
including churches and cathedrals,
it is obvious that specific types of stones were used
for specific purposes.
Clearly this was by design because some of them
were transported from as much as 400 miles away.
Stone used in temples has a high content of quartz.
In fact, the type of quartz in the blue stones
of stone hedge is also found in early radios.
Quartz is a piezo electric material.
Therefore just like a modern day computer,
it possesses energetic properties.
And it can be programmed.
And throughout the temple making world.
the programming was done through intent.
There are three genders of temple,
male... female...
and balanced.
And each gender is reflected in the choice of stone.
Masculine energy was symbolized by the force
of the sun.
And this force was mirrored on earth in rock
created through volcanic action.
So when creating a temple that favors male energy,
always use stone of volcanic origin.
Granites...
basalt...
dolorite... greenstone...
or serpentine.
Red granite is particularly favored
because it has a very high content of quartz
as well as iron, the ingredient found in human blood.
Carefully applied, it can have a significant effect
on a person, hence why it was a stern choice
in the core of pyramids.
And later as the foundation stone of alters and churches,
and that is precisely why they are called altars.
By contrast the force of the moon
was considered female.
This is because of the moon's effect on tides
and fertility cycles as well as the life of the moon
being a reflection of the light from the masculine sun.
This lunar force is therefore mirrored in stone
born of the action of water.
And so, stone of sedimentary origin
is the preferred choice in temples
that work with feminine energy.
And these are limestone,
sandstone...
sarcen which is a highly compressed santstone.
Marble...
alabaster...
and finally schist which is not sedimentary in origin
but metamorphic.
Yet since it is formed by the action of water,
and the compression of material at the time,
it too is also considered a feminine stone.
There is one point of departure that only occurs
in male temples.
And that is that all male temples
include one female element in order to work.
This is because purely male energy cannot creation motion
all by itself.
An example of this is how the poles of two magnets
will join together when aligned female to female
and male to female, but will repel
when placed male to male.
Solar temples such as the alter room at Edfu in Egypt,
contain the male red granite surrounded
by the female sandstone.
The amount of female stone is not important.
So long as one element is present.
Greek temples dedicated to Athena or Diana
are an excellent examples of lunar female temples
and they use marble on marble.
Some temples vet a combination
of male and female energy.
These are places originally designed
for balance and the intent is reflected
in the mix of granite and limestones
and sandstones.
Stone Hedge which is a lunar as well as a solar temple
uses female sarcen stones and blue stone,
the high density granite with unusual properties
quarried far away in Whales.
Because of the changes in society and styles,
it may not be convenient, even visually alluring
to deposit stones in your home.
Particularly in a modern urban setting.
Where space is limited.
So for those of us who live in apartments,
there is a solution.
Substitute stones for crystals.
Although they are inherent in the stone,
crystals were never specifically used
in the structure of the temples
because of their unsuitability as building material.
And yet crystals possess similar energetic characteristics
to stone.
The prime neutral crystal is clear quartz.
It is a pure, androgynous element
and therefore it can be programmed
to swing either way.
The energy polarity of crystals
is reflected in the energetic qualities of their names.
Words are after all, mental interpretations
of underlying causes and effects.
Therefore a name with an imposing dominant tone
such as Ruby or agate describes
a male energy.
On the other hand, emerald
or lapis lazuli evoke a flowing energy
just like water, and such crystals
are considered female.
If you wish to construct a temple of balanced energy,
simply mix the two types of crystal.
Just as you would using stone.
Or you can use labradorite,
which is one of the few gems that incorporates
both elements of the sacred masculine
and the feminine.
So let's return to the area we have already define
for our temple.
At this moment, we place male and female stones
to physically mark the circumference of the area
we had measured using the megalithic yard.
Placing the stones by themselves doesn't create anything.
Because at this point, they are simply lumps
of solidified energy.
But the moment we send them attention,
and we give them intention,
that's when magic begins to happen.
So send your attention to every stone around the perimeter.
Hold their shape in your mind.
Their weight, their texture,
and as you hold these images,
consciously send out your intent to these stones.
And say to yourself
by my conscious intent,
I ask these stones to anchor the veins of water
and the lives of magnetic energy
to this designated space
for the purpose of creating a temple of light
for the highest good of the local spirit.
And for the highest good of all.
It is done.
You will find that where the width of the magnetic lines
previously encompassed the general area
of this temple in progress,
these same lines have now been attracted
to the stones which carry your intent.
The energy field is now glued
to the exact perimeter of the area
you have intended.
At this point those who are more sensitive,
will notice that a subtle energy field
has also begun to build around the perimeter.
It resembles a series of ripples
that radiate away from the perimeter
as if the temple is a rock that is suddenly been thrown
into a pool of energy.
Magnetic energy is not only concentrating
around the perimeter of the temple,
it has also begun to spin inside it
creating a slow motion vortex that will build
as we progress.
So let us recap what we have accomplished so far,
we have discovered the law of attraction,
and how it can be used to move and influence energy.
We located a suitable piece of land
where we wish to build a portal of energy.
Then we applied the power of that attention
and intention to draw the veins of underground water
to this area.
We repeated the process to vector the lines
of magnetic energy.
Next we define the area of the temple
by using the megalithic yard as the unitive measure.
(guitar riffs)
And finally, we physically define the temple
by placing male and female stones
around the circumference.
And when we gave those stones attention and intention,
the wondering lines of water and magnetism
were drawn to that exact area.
So in a short space of time,
we have begun to create a portal of energy on the land,
Next we must give that energy purpose,
and for that we must apply sacred geometry
to the positioning of the stones.
Which brings us to the fifth principal of temple making.
Before we examine the fifth principle,
here is a simple test for you.
There are no wrong or right answers,
just responses which are appropriate only for yourself.
Without thinking about it,
what immediately comes to mind when you see this?
What images or feelings does it evoke?
Does the shape feel static or dynamic?
Does it feel contracted or expansive?
Clear your mind.
Now what emotions immediately come to mind
when you see this?
What images or feelings does it evoke?
Does the shape feel static or dynamic?
Does it feel contractive or expansive?
Clear your mind again.
Now what emotions immediately come to mind
when you see this?
What images or feelings does it evoke?
Does the shape feel static or dynamic?
Does it feel contractive or expansive?
Each shape probably elicits a difference reactions.
You see just like you, the geometric shape is
a condensed whirlpool of atoms and molecules.
And shapes change according to changes
in the resonance and vibrations of molecules.
These images show how changes in sound frequency
alters the geometry of sound when it is captured in liquid.
Different shapes are also a reflection
of their underlying consciousness and purpose.
When form interacts with the human body,
particularly in a physical environment,
it stimulates its senses and emotions.
The word emotion is very apt
because it literally means energy in motion.
Welcome to the world of sacred geometry.
Throughout ancient times,
the pillars, walls, and elements of temples
were arranged according to specific geometric laws.
Because it was known that certain alignments influenced
the way molecules flow, thus setting the tone
for a local environment.
If you ever visited a temple,
you probably experienced the sensation.
Just like entering a house,
some temples make you feel right at home.
While others make you feel unwelcome.
Since human DNA is based on geometric structure,
the human body's energy field is sensitive to the harmonic
of the environment in which it stands.
Therefore by considering the appropriate geometry,
the temple builders discovered that a specific resonance
was exchanged between a stone temple and a human temple.
Before we consider the different shapes of sacred geometry.
Let's take a look at some examples of how these applied.
Anyone who has experienced the pyramids of Giza,
even from a photograph,
cannot deny the effect these buildings
have on your awareness.
The effect is deliberately induced in part of
by the choice of the great pyramids slope angle.
Which is based on the angle of a hectagon.
A seven-pointed geometric figure that is analogous
to the pure music scale.
The same geometry is reflected in the angle of the
building's main passageway.
If you've ever walked inside this temple,
you will know just how disorientating
the effect can be.
This deliberate sensory manipualtion
is designed to open your body's electrical circuits
in order to make it more receptive to finer,
more penetrating frequencies.
The supreme art of sacred geometry
lies in the way it can be hidden from view.
Literally made occult which means conceal from the eye.
What looks like a plan made of repeating squares
and concentric circles,
is in reality a well crafted series of geometric forms.
And the entrances tears and bell towers of
this Indonesian monument are all positioned
in harmonic proportion to specific geometric forms.
This ancestral knowledge was not lost in time.
But re-emerged in Europe after centuries
of religious persecution.
In the layouts of Gothic Cathedrals.
The alignment of pillars, walls, and the labyrinth
of charteau testify to the continuous use of this art
and it's affect are still palpable today.
The use of sacred geometry is cunningly concealed
in simple temples such as castle rig stone circle
in Combria.
This cartoid shape is based on the intersection
of two equal circles, representing the duality
of the creator.
Revealing that most sacred of all shapes,
the vesc of pisces, symbol of the divine femine.
From the womb of this form,
one can generate all the forms of sacred geometry.
Just in case you are feeling that all this
is all above your ability and not practical in modern life,
consider the use of sacred geometry in a humble
stone circle off the coast of Scotland.
And yet this simple temple comprising nine stones
is one of the most powerful temples in this
part of the world.
It shows that the use of sacred geometry can be a simple
or as involved as one wishes it to be.
And the quality of its effect depends largely on
how it is used and the quality of the intent applied
and accumulated over time at the same location.
The same geometry of that stone circle
along with the other principles taught in this program
were used to create a striking stone circle
that is now a place of meditation
in a garden in British Columbia.
So all of this stuff is very practical,
even in our modern day culture.
So where does sacred geometry actually come from?
It may come as no surprise that it was all distilled
from the observation of universal laws and processes.
Like the stones they so carefully chose,
the temple makers considered geometric forms
to be expressions of consciousness.
Thanks to the development of the electro microscope,
We can see that their idea was correct.
That the most basic of all living organisms on earth
the single celled diatons, are simple geometric forms.
The temple makers recognized that all earthly life
was a mirror of actions taking place
in the world above.
So they examined the heavens and discovered
the same geometry occurs in the moon orbits
of those large molecules that circle the heavens.
Since the heavens were the orderly domain of the gods,
and the planets dwelled there,
the celestial order was laying sacred geometry.
And because this geometry reflected the perfect
machinery of the universe,
they reasoned that by applying it
in the design of their temples,
they would create an environment
where balance and harmony could be restored
across this sometimes imperfect environment called earth.
And if a person walked in, in a state of this ease,
through the transfer of these harmonics,
they would walk out again feeling wholy
or as we say today, holy.
Since the angles used in geometry are unique
to each shape, the type of geometry used
reflected the effect the temple makers wished to evoke,
This is one reason why different people
are attached to different temples
at different times in life.
Your own eternal geometry seeks to reconnect
with the order it needs to bring itself back
into perfect equilibrium.
It's just like your body wanting to go for a walk
in the country side for some harmony and fresh air
after a week of stress.
So let's take a look at the seven principle geometries
and see what each one of them does.
The triangle represents the free-fold nature of light.
The creative heart of the universe.
This is epitomized in Christian art
where god is the only individual depicted
in triangular halo.
The triangle is the perfect equilibrium of manifestation
is represented in the Christian holy trinity.
And in nature, as the bond of father, mother, child.
In our modern electric world,
computer and tv screens require a three-fold source
to recreate white light and the visible telespectrum.
The triangles three dimensional counterpart
the tetrahedron is the primary shape
that bonds atoms together.
By positioning the elements of a temple,
according to the angles and harmonics of the triangle,
you invoke the properties of strength, stability,
and perfect equilibrium.
The creative and dynamic power of three
is reflected in many of our everyday phrases
which are repeated three times.
Three wishes, three strikes, and so on.
Even in prayer and ceremony, the name of an angel
is invoked three times for best effect.
The first knowledge is the whole
and the second sets the male and female
aspect into motion.
And the third gives forward motion and creates.
Whereas the triangle reflects the equilibrium of forces
in the invisible plane,
its complimentary opposite the square,
invokes equilibrium of forces on the material plane.
Three dimensionally, the square and the triangle
are represented by the cube and the tetrahedron.
And the corners of the latter fit perfectly
inside the cube.
A striking metaphor of how the spiritual world
is bound within the material world, always.
When the elements of a temple are positioned
according to the harmonics of the square,
you invoke the balance of the four elements
of earth, air, fire, and water.
This is reflected in the fixed cardinal points
of north, south, east, and west.
Which allow us to find our bearings
along the three dimensional world.
Even if there is some disagreement about this.
Between women and men when they're driving.
Before directions help our spatial orientation
across the four corners of the globe,
and divide the year into four seasons,
since the elements of a square
are equidistant to eachother,
it is said that the properties of this geometry
are static, they are rooted, fixed.
And therefore, very much of the material world
you are connecting with the forces of the earth.
Hence why this shape is predominantly used by
native cultures such as the Navajo.
Next comes the five pointed pentagram.
Possibly the most pervasive geometric shape
in many cultures.
Perhaps this is due to its relationship
with the spiral that is found embedded within it.
For the same spiral is inherent in every organic life form.
This golden spiral is a spiral motion of life.
From galaxy and whirlpools,
to flowers and shells,
the pentagram is nature's proclomation
of triumph in the natural world.
So it's not surprising that the psychology
of such a shape found its way into our vernacular.
Five star reviews and five star hotels,
the stars of the silver screen,
we even put the pentagram on the flags on nations.
Since the pentagram is the flag of nature
working with it connects you with nature's living systems.
And because such principles are life affirming,
the shape invokes growth,
fertility, creativity,
intuition, and the power of the sacred feminine.
Traditional lunar temples are encoded with
pentagonal geometry.
In part because of the moon's influence
on the rhythm's of fertility.
Not to mention the ebb and flow of water.
Whereas the pentagram reflects the fluid nature
of living organisms,
the hexagon represents the rigid structure
of non-living things.
Such as crystals.
Just as living water solidifies into ice
and forms hexagonal shapes.
Since hexagonal shape implies rigidity,
it's qualities are considered masculine.
Arranging elements according to the hexagon
invokes structure, organization, and rationality.
The organizational hives of bees favor this shape.
As does modern microchip technology
which uses the hexagon as the geometry of choice
for sending and storing information.
And just as lunar temples are based on the pentagram,
temples based on the hexagon are considered solar.
Working with the seven-pointed heptagon
is to work with powerful elemental forces
that shape the universe.
Because the principle of seven
reflects the prime notes of sound
and the colors of visible light.
In the beginning, it is said
that the Egyptian god Ra
emitted a cry of light.
It is a mystery why should the heptagon
should be the only principle geometric shape
who's angles cannot be bisected to a whole number.
Therefore temples that work with this geometry
are invoking the energy of the unnoble.
And since both the source of the soul
and the universe are noble,
the heptagon equally represents the search for truth
and enlightenment.
Perhaps this is why the great pyramid of Giza
built on the foundation of a square
but with a slope angle based on the heptagon
is a symbol for so many people on a quest
for meaning in their lives.
The qualities of the heptagon
are personified in the statue of liberty
with its halo of seven rays,
symbolizing the search for truth and elightenment.
Because in doing so,
a person gains understanding and is thus liberated
from the illusions of the material world.
This symbol dates back to the Egyptian goddess Seshat,
the wife of Jehoti, the god of knowledge and illumination.
Whom the Greeks call Toth.
Because the heptagon is so synonymous
with prime creative forces,
it is not a geometry that should be used lightly.
As any misuse can have devastating consequences.
In times past, temples containing this geometry
came under the control of personal ego
and havoc was created across the face of the earth
is a geometry to work with only when you have
reached a level of confidence and responsibility
with your intent.
After the enlightenment has discovered through the
correct use of the heptagon comes the octagon.
The eight pointed figure representing complete balance
and stability.
Eight is walking that fine line between the material
and the immaterial, the heart and the mind.
The male and the female.
To work with the octagon is to invoke the ultimate aim
of what it means to be a fully aware human.
The christed human.
To be fully awake within your conscious self.
Historically, spiritual figures are admired
for their balanced nature are associated with
the octagon with the figure eight.
Or the infinity symbol.
Jesus, Mohammed, Merlin,
and the archangel Michael to name a few.
Balance in the heart and mind was the primary aim
of all esoteric cultures.
And it's geometry became synonymous
with the original Knight's Templars.
The red cross represents mastery
of the four material forces in balance
with their four spiritual or ethereal counterparts.
The octagon is also prevalent throughout the art
and architecture of esoteric Islam.
Particularly its temples as well as temples
belonging to Eastern faiths.
The final figure in sacred geometry
is the nine-sided nonagon.
This is the free fold expression
of the trinity and so it invokes
the properties of highest achievement.
Completion, utmost expression, and perfection.
Such qualities are expressed in everyday phrases.
For example to be madly in love is to be on cloud nine.
To do you very best is to go the whole nine yards,
Even the very act of creative perfection
the human birth cycle,
is completed in nine months.
Working with a nonagon in your temple
essentially brings you into connection
with all there is.
This concept is seen in the Egyptian Aenead
who's nine gods, or netta, each represent
an archetypal principle governing the cause of nature.
Now that we know the properties of each geometry,
we can consider which is the most relevant
to the purpose of our temple.
In this program, the primary aim is to bring in information.
And to give this information structure
so that we can apply it in a practical and methodical manner
such properties belong to the hexagon.
So arranging the stones in our temple in progress
according to the angles of the hexagon,
is the appropriate thing to do.
If like me, you agonized over geometry in school,
particularly because it was never taught
as colorfully as this,
here is a simple method of constructing
any geometric shape.
Take a circle...
and divide a circumference of 360 degrees
by the number of points in your geometry.
In this case, 360 divided by six equals 60 degrees.
Next mark off six points at 60 degree intervals
from the center, and along the circumference.
Now connect the dots.
(ethereal beat)
Since many geometric figures can be drawn
in a multitude of ways,
you can position the stones of a temple
in a myriad of ways but always in relationship
to the underlying geometry.
The simplest method is to reference each of the points
along the circumference.
Because the angle between these points is unique
to the hexagon, each stone will hold the energy
of this geometry.
You can also choose to place the stones
on the six nodes,
that is the points where the construction lines intersect.
These stones are now set to be in harmonic proportion
to the stones along the circumference.
Or if you happen to have a lot of stones handy,
you can blatantly mark the entire geometry.
Here's another method,
connect all the nodes with the circle.
Any number of stones placed along this inner circle
will be in harmonic proportion to the stones along
the outer circle.
In this case, it is not necessary to anchor the points
of the geometry because its the area between the two circles
that is in proportion to the hexagonal geometry.
You can choose to add a third ring
that touches the inside of the hexagon.
In each case,
the harmonic proportion of the geometry
is maintained.
The energy of this geometry can even be anchored
by simply referencing each of the six unique points
without the need for a visual circumference.
Let us return to our temple.
We are now ready to ground the hexagonal geometry.
To emphasize the solar principles of structure and logic
in our temple, we choose volcanic stone,
granite, and basalt, each containing a high degree
of quartz.
And of course, one female sandstone to give motion
to the fixed male element.
Choosing the simplest expression of the hexagon
we place a stone at each of the points of the hexagon
that touch the circumference.
To emphasize the geometry,
and to make the temple more visually appealing,
we add a stone at each of the six nodes,
adding geometry does not in itself generate anything
until it is given conscious action,
it is nothing more than a bunch of lines on a landscape.
As we have learned,
you must give an object attention and intention
so that action can take place.
We are now ready to initiate the process.
Focus on these stones,
send your attention to bare on their alignment.
Recognize the construction lines of the hexagon.
Appreciate the points and nodes and the space in between.
As you hold these images, send the stones your intent
by stating out loud, by my conscious intent,
I ask that the rational qualities of this gemoetry
be represented within this temple
to give structure to my thought and my work.
For the purpose of learning.
For the highest good of the local spirit
and for the highest good of all.
Again choose words that are apprioriate
for your individual purpose.
It is done.
We can now remove the construction lines
leaving every stone to anchor the properties of the hexagon
this geometry is now occult.
It is hidden from the eye.
For this demonstration, we also choose
to remove the original perimeter stones
leaving just the six outer and six inner stones
that mark the geometry.
Surprisingly this does not alter the energy field
previously established around the perimeter
of the temple.
Nor does it alter the location of the water
and magnetic lines.
This is because your intent is super physical
it supersedes everything in the physical world.
Your thoughts of anchoring the perimeter
are enough to create a living protective field
around the remaining stones.
That now hold the energy of the hexagon.
Of course any energy field is susceptible
to exterior influences.
So by removing the stones,
it means it is up to you to reinforce their original intent
and purpose on a regular basis.
Like plants, even energy needs nourishment
to stay healthy and purposeful.
And your regular attention and intention
is all that is required.
So if you're someone who leads a busy lifestyle,
and is inclined to forget to water the plants,
you may want to leave the original perimeter stones,
since they retain the memory of the purpose
you gave them.
But conscious activation of the geometry
turns it into bio-geometry.
And this starts to influence the atoms of energy
inside a temple.
You should find that the inner spiral will have
increasing spin.
Outside the perimeter, a stronger flow of ripples
can also be felt and measured.
Once you gain confidence with geometry,
you'll wish to play with more complex structures.
Lets say you are creating a feature in a garden,
you can multiply the effects of the root geometry
by expanding it outward three times.
Such a technique is called nesting.
In this example, we have three nested hexagons,
each growing from where the other completes.
Linking all the nodes with circles,
and removing the geometry, the effect
can be visually dramatic.
It looks as if you are actually looking down into a vortex.
Because one temple can be used for multiple purposes,
multiple geometries can be encoded within the same perimeter
one of the best examples of this practice is stone hedge.
Each of the rings and horseshoes of stones
were designed to be activated according to the
intended use of the day.
So when female or creative rights were performed,
only those stones aligned to the pentragram
were brought to life.
During solar or warrior rituals,
only the stones relating to the hexagon
were activated.
But when sound ceremonies were performed,
the entire temple was used because the whole temple
is held within a heptagon.
The key thing to remember,
is that the only parts of the temple
that are activated at any moment,
are those parts you consciously invoke
using your attention and intention.
Otherwise they are just ordinary stones.
All be it, big ones.
Let me show you an example of encoding two geometries.
Take the inner core of a pentagram, the pentagon.
Now inscribe two circles the first touching the inside.
The second the outer points.
Any stones placed along these circles
are in proportional harmony to each other.
Next design a hexagon inside that innercircle,
remove the inner stones,
and anchor a stone at each point of the hexagon.
When you rub out the geometry,
you now have a dual geometry male and female temple.
A similar technique is used by nature.
Every wondered why the inside of the six pointed daffodil
is called a bell?
Just add a heptagon and you'll find out.
Here is an example of a temple that incorporates
three geometries, each cunningly concealed
within what looks like a innocent six-petaled flower.
I created this temple in my garden
using chips of granite topped with marble.
The design is based on a genuine crop circle
with whom I had an interesting experience
to say the least.
If you look carefully, you will see just how
the harmonics of the pentagram, the hexagon,
and the heptagon, each reference various elements
of the design.
And yet as far as any of my less than understanding
neighbors were concerned, this is nothing more
than a harmless flower design in the middle of a grass lawn.
At this point in our temple building process,
we have applied and accumulated several principles
which have served to stir a portal into motion.
All we need now is to vector the terrestrial energy
building up around the perimeter,
to enter the temple.
And to do this, we must give it an entrance.
Which brings us to the sixth principle of temple making.
Every temple has a gateway,
even if its not immediately apparent.
the origin of the word gate comes from the latin
porta from which we get our modern term portal.
Rather appropriate then given the history
of healing and invocation at the sacred sites.
And particularly so if you consider the gate or doorway
of a temple serves as a conduit for the pathways
of living magnetic energy to enter the site.
So when you cross the threshold of a temple,
you are literally entering a portal.
With the advent of churches,
these doorways into other worlds became known as
entrances because within their womb,
they entrance you into a new level of awareness.
Needless to say, that the purposeful orientation
of a temple's doorway, is as important as any principle
taught so far.
Because it serves to draw and focus vital forces
into a designated space.
Just like your attention and intention,
when earth energy is consciously directed
it can be used constructively.
Indigenous cultures throughout the world
have maintained the tradition of aligning their temples
either by referencing the four fixed cardinal directions,
by complex orientation to specific stars,
or by marking the points of the solstice and equinox.
Vestiges of this practice were carried into the symbols
of Hinduism and Celtic tradition.
And later adopted by Christianity.
Just as the choice of stone and geometry
were important considerations when constructing
the temple, the choice of orientation added one final layer
of possibility to the site and its intended purpose.
In the ancient world,
every element was seen as imbued with consciousness.
Therefore the orientation of the temple
to the various compass points
not only invoked a specific quality of energy,
it also served to magnify the information received.
Giving these invisible energies a physical form,
helps people focus their attention.
And so a god or angel was attributed to each
cardinal direction and each one represented
a type of life force.
This is why it is important to honor the local deity,
angel, or diva not for worship,
but as a recognition of a spirit of place.
So let's take a look at the temple alignments
and see what each one invokes.
Positioning your entrance in the north
is to face the cold and hardness of the north pole.
And thus it connects with the element of earth.
Such a temple invokes the properties of matter
and magnetism and as such, connects with those material
and magnetic beings called humans.
The qualities of north are entrusted
to the archangel Uriel.
An example of northern orientation are the pyramids of Giza.
Which ultimately worked with magnetism
and the material forces of the earth,
and served dead and now as a place of initiation
and transformation for many people.
An entrance in the south faces the equator,
and draws the element of fire.
It associates with the properties of light,
strength, power, protection,
and the spiritual warrior.
Such qualities are entrusted to the archangel Michael.
An example of sudden orientation is the mangificant temple
of Edfu, it is also an example of how these principles
can be used for personal power.
The Pharaoh Rameses the second used such a temple
to magnify his own ego and merge his strength.
Another big example is the hall of prayer,
housed within the temple of heaven in Beijing.
Without a doubt, a seat of unbridled solar power
for many centuries.
An eastern entrance draws the element of air.
Since this direction generally faces the light
of the reborn sun,
such temples invoke the properties of awakening,
and healing,
and since you are figuratively associating
with the light emerging out of darkness,
you are invoking understanding.
These qualities are entrusted to the archangel Rafael.
Many Native American sweat lodges are still aligned
to this day to the east.
The western entrance connects with the element of water.
And faces the path of the setting or dying sun.
As a symbol of descending such temples
are associated with traveling within.
With communication and the underworld,
these forces are entrusted with the archangel Gabriel.
Traditionally seen in the western world
as the one who brings communication and messages
from the realm of god to humanity.
These then are the four material or fixed
temple alignments.
But as far as the temple builders were concerned,
the cross points in between were the most dynamic.
Because they reflect that transitional moment,
between one form and another.
Much like the points of the equinox,
when the forces of light and dark are in optimum balance.
Hence the origin of that word.
These cross-quarters were considered to be ethereal
and so they were given no physical face or angel.
They were a mystery, occult, unseen,
the great number of surviving temples
throughout Europe faced the south-east
because they were built during an era
when crops were failing due to
extraordinary ecological disasters.
And so they did what they could to amplify
the fertilizing power of the sun.
Such entrances were oriented to the south-east,
toward the rising winter sun when light
was at its most distant and weakest.
This light would be guided into the temple
to increasing virtue.
And with it, the fertility of the land and its people.
Thus the south-east orientation is associated
with fertility and birthing, literally and metaphorically.
It also vectors the properties of growth and creativity.
So its fertility of mind as well as body.
One example is the temple of Hapshepshod.
Where birthing ceremonies were once conducted.
As well as instruction on the art of sacred sexuality.
Temples aligned to the south-west
are places of honoring and gratitude.
Of giving thanks to the forces that made
the bounty of the earth possible
as well as the manifestation of plenty
in one's personal life.
This orientation represents the triumph of light
materially and metaphorically.
Traditionally these are harvest temples.
They are places associated with celebration
and festivity, and with a Celtic feast of Lammice.
The Kiva at bandolier in New Mexico,
is an example of a place of honoring and harvest.
With its entrance located in the south-west.
And entrance facing the north-west
is oriented to the darkest time of the year,
when the veil with other dimensions is particularly thin.
Such temples are intense spiritual places
because they are used to remember and pay tribute
to the spirit world, so that people may be offered
safe passage through the dark days of winter.
To re-emerge safely into the light of spring.
Such temples are often associated with all hallows eve.
Or Halloween as we call it today.
And if you happen to be Celtic,
this would be the Celtic feast of Sauen.
Northwestern temples therefore favor
the properties of introspection and a return to the womb.
Last and certainly not least,
was the north-eastern alignment
which faces the rising mid summer solstice sun.
To orient your temple to this is to draw to you
the wisdom of the ancestors, since the light emerges
at its most exalted heavenly position.
So symbolically, it is associated with enlightenment.
Not only do temples associate with ancestral wisdom
face north-east.
They are also the oldest monuments on earth.
The stone rose of Carmac in Northern France.
The neolithic foundations upon which
Shattal Cathedral stands.
The original Navajo sacred site at Shi Mi oh,
in New Mexicno, and of course Stone Hedge.
Just to name a few.
Just as a temple can be built with multiple geometries
to fulfill a multitude of uses.
So it can have multiple entrances.
In northern Britain, the stone circle of Swinside
is used as a place of fertility as well as harvest.
And so it has two entrances.
One oriented to the southeast,
the other to the southwest.
Likewise, Ave Briestone circle,
a lunar fertility temple, has its
principle processional entrance
in the southeast and the second
processional route in the southwest.
Which was used in times of tribute and thanksgiving
to the light.
The principle of dual orientation was incorporated
into Celtic places of worship.
And subsequently found its way into latter day churches.
In orientating their names east to west,
they are following the processional path of the rising
and setting sun.
A profoundly pagan ritual.
To this day, you can still see the pagan past
at work in churches.
To receive the newborn light,
battisons are conducted in the east
and to communicate with the underworld
funerals enter through the west.
In times past, even enlightened pharaohs,
kings and queens, were buried with their head
in the east so that the soul may seek understanding.
At the temple of Luxel, the entrances face northeast
and southwest, making it a place of ancestral wisdom
as well as tribute to manifestation.
This ceremonial root what to they would considered
the nave in a church fulfills a third function.
In that it is aligned 26 degrees north east,
and marks the hierarchical rising of Sirius
the star most associated with ancestral wisdom.
Surrounded by the Capuchin of a bustling
Parisonal metropolis,
sits this garden that key on its shell.
An urban oasis for reflection.
This inner city temple,
with its association with the archangel Michael,
combines man principles of temple making.
Its four entrances each reference the fixed cardinal points.
At the center, lies the water element
in the shape of a fountain.
It is bordered within octagonal geometry.
And the relationship of its elements
conceals the harmonics of the pentagram.
Now that we have some understanding of orientation,
its applied to our temple.
When this siting of the most appropriate direction
for the entrance,
think carefully about the qualities you wishes to invoke
in your temple.
In this situation, we have been working with knowledge
and structure, and we want to bring understanding
to bear on all of this information.
So creating an entrance facing east
is the appropriate choice here.
After finding the orientation on a compass,
take a few stones, and mark a doorway,
on the perimeter of the temple.
Of course these stones will remain symbolic
until you come to apply the law of attraction.
So let's do that.
Send your attention to the stone.
Hold their shape in your mind.
Feel their weight.
Their surface texture, their position in the east.
And as you hold these images in your mind,
send out your intent to the stones,
and say out loud by my conscious intent
I ask that these stones be the conduit
of magnetic energy and life force into this space.
For the purpose of creating a temple of light.
For the highest good of the local spirit
and for the highest good of all.
It is done.
You will find that terrestrial energy is now streaming
into the space through the entrance created
by the placement of these stones.
If you measure the environment
inside the temple at the stage with dousing,
you will find that the spinning motion of energy
has been amplified significantly.
As with geometry,
there are many forms your entrance can take.
In this case, we have designed a
classic mirror handle entrance.
So called because it resembles the handle of a mirror.
The design is derived from the processional avenue
at Stone hedge.
But there are a myriad of solutions.
Especially if you plan to create your temple
within a limited physical environment.
You can place two stones in between the others
along the circumference.
if you do not want to disturb the original geometry.
Choose two stones to act as the entrance.
But try to make them stand out from the rest,
by making them bigger or different in color.
The second technique is to remove one stone,
marking the geometry along the circumference.
And place the entry stones relative
to the construction lines of the geometry.
This creates a pleasing doorway
while maintaining the integrity
of the underlying geometry.
If your temple is to be used for multiple purposes,
do as the garden temple in Paris,
create many entrances and use the law of attraction
to draw energy into each specific entrance as required.
Remember until you apply attention and intention,
these are just rocks and spaces in the circumference
nothing more.
If you're uncertain as to which alignment to choose,
simply create the door metaphysically
using your intent.
Once again your intent is super physical
therefore by thinking it and believing it,
you create it in reality.
Even if its not visible reality.
So in your physical circular temple,
you would walk through an invisible entrance
made of imaginary stones.
And if you believe strongly enough,
the effect will be the same.
But just be sure to walk in the right compass direction.
If you imagine east, don't walk in through the north.
We are almost ready to enter the temple
and experience its full potential, but before we do.
There's one final ingredient we have to add.
Which brings us to the seventh principle
of temple making.
(ethereal chants)
We have now completed the temple.
We drew in water and magnetism.
We applied sacred measure and stone.
Geometry...
and finally gave the temple orientation.
And the more tools we applied,
the greater the concentration of energy generated.
On their own, these processes do not a temple make.
A temple is a combination of elements
working synergistically and set into motion
as one whole element.
So we must add a final ingredient,
something that binds everything together.
In other words, the temple needs to be made holy.
And the most powerful gelling agent,
is focused intent.
And we now applied to all the elements
and treat them as one.
And the moment we apply it,
the energy building in and around the temple,
is given motion.
So using the law of attraction,
send your attention to the water,
the magnetic lines, the stones,
the measure, the geometry,
and the entrance.
Now hold them in your mind
as one complete whole.
The form, and this form
is above, along, and below the ground.
See this temple as three dimensional.
As you hold these images, visualize
a circle opening.
And send your intent to this temple
by saying out loud, by my conscious intent
I ask this whole temple be open.
A temple of light, to serve my highest interests.
For the highest good of the local spirit.
And the highest good of all.
It is done.
This portal is now open.
At this moment,
some people feel as though a pulse of energy
has exploded through them.
Like ripples in a pond expanding through the land.
For this is precisely what happens when you have
a living energy temple.
As you enter the temple,
be aware of any difference in your body.
it may feel warmer, there may be a tingling of the forearms,
even a ringing sensation in the ear.
This is a natural process, caused by the amplification
of the local energy field as it interacts with
the magnetism and the water that makes up your body.
Since this energy will also be spiraling very tightly
inside a temple now,
now may even feel slightly disoriented
until you get used to it.
This portal may remain open indefinitely.
If like a plant, you feed it regularly with your
attention and intention.
In a short moment of reinforcement,
is all it takes.
However for those of you who are not energy junkies,
whenever you complete your business inside the portal,
you can close it by applying your attention and intention.
Visualize the whole structure above, along, and below
the ground.
And then visualize a circle closing around it.
You can reinforce this with your hands.
With strong intent, say out loud,
In the name of the light, I close the energy field
inside this temple.
Let it always be protected by the light.
It is done.
This is also a good time if you wish.
To consciously break contact with the energy of the temple.
Some people do this because they find
that being energetically attached to it, is too draining.
Here's a very simple technique you could do.
Visualize your legs as roots that penetrate
deep into the earth.
Now retract those roots back into your body,
and with strong intent, say break contact.
Clap your hands to reinforce it.
And discharge all excess electromagnetic energy
from your body by simply flicking your fingers
to disperse it out and away.
You should now feel quite holy.
Earlier in this program,
I said that my own living space
was based on the principles you have been taught here.
Using my apartment as an example,
and I bet you've never seen a man's living space
look this tidy.
The elements in the room were arranged to amplify
the things I need most in my life.
My intent was to create an environment conducive
to creativity.
my second big intent was to be grateful for the fruits
of my labor, to honor the harvest
of my incoming abundance.
And to give thanks for the wonderful
apartments I manifested during a time
of particularly challenging circumstances.
And so in my living room,
there are strategically placed rocks and crystals
anchoring the form of a pentagram.
The geometry of life,
of flow, and creativity.
Notice how they are not resting on the floor
but interspersed among the furnishings.
Geometry can be three dimensional
as well as flat.
Because of the compact space of this room,
I chose the window closest to the southwest
to act as my entrance.
Of course, walking through the window
would be showing off.
So I used my imagination and figuratively
walk my body through that entrance.
When you use your imagination,
you are a magi, a magician.
And every afternoon, I can sit on my
horseshoe shaped sofa and face the southwest,
imagining an ingratitude for what I have been given
and will receive.
It is interesting that in asking
for such a creative female environment,
I should have vetted a female magnetic line
to run through the front of my apartment.
But there's more..
Because much of my year is spent teaching around the world,
I inevitably come home depleted of energy.
So it is important for me to have a sanctaury
where I can receive healing as well as
make sense of all I had experienced.
So I needed sanctuary of healing and understanding.
I also need a place to connect with all there is.
And complete unity.
The answer was to implement a stone circle
based on nine-fold geometry.
With an entrance facing east.
Because space is a rare commodity where I live,
the circle's geometry has been flattened at the top.
After removing one of the geometry stones,
I placed the entrance stones to reference and anchor
the geometry.
This simple informal structure anchors
a second male magnetic line
that approaches the apartment from the rear.
And where this male line meets the female line
inside the building, these create a vortex in my bedroom,
needless to say, I tend to travel to distant
and unusual places in my sleep.
(ethereal chants)
Now that you understand how to harness elemental forces.
It is crucial to do so with integrity and responsibility.
You see once the human body circulatory channels
are in close contact with cosmic principles
inside the temple,
proper energy flow is achieved at all levels of self.
And the co-creative process is enforced.
The Hindu use the symbol to reflect the state
of connection and balance.
However energy is neither good nor bad.
it is simply energy.
And that makes cosmic forces a two way street.
And what your intent brings to this energy
will define its direction and its use.
Therefore, the principles of temple making,
when applied by someone with an unbalanced association
with material forces, together with incorrect intent,
can lead to disastrous consequences.
So always use what you have learned here
with integrity and always for the highest good of all.
Let us close them by observing the seven universal laws
of manifestation.
You cannot manifest what is not
in accordance with your soul's purpose.
This is because your soul while subconscious,
rules not your ego.
Your soul may have other plans.
Or a purpose that you may not be conscious of.
Which means be careful what you ask for.
You may manifest it.
If you push a situation and allow your ego
to force its will, you may end of manifesting
something that is the very opposite of what ultimately
is in your best interests.
And this will happen in order to return you
to your correct path of experience.
You cannot manifest what is not in accordance
with the purpose of the local spirit.
Manifesting requires sympathetic resonance
between you and the spirit of place.
No matter where you do your work.
This is why we are drawn to a certain place.
Or a house, or a apartment.
Because our underlying purpose and intent
is felt by the over widening spirit of place.
One way to know for sure is when you are surrounded
by a sense of effortlessness, and joy in the work you do.
What is the intent behind your intent?
Do you really, really, really mean it?
Be honest with yourself.
Is what you are trying to manifest realistic
or is it coming from ego.
You will know the answer when your gut feeling reminds you,
if your stomach muscles retract when you make a request.
That's a que from your body asking you
to question yourself.
Always manifest for the highest good of all.
You are a cog in a huge machine,
therefore it stands to reason if everyone and all
benefit from your request.
Then manifestation occurs more readily and effortlessly.
Lack of trust is an obstacle to pure manifestation.
This is perhaps the most important law.
You must believe the process.
The ping of doubt releases a packet of energy
that tells the universe you are not ready.
And just like a log in the river,
it jams the forces you have attracted for your benefit.
So don't short-circuit the process.
Trust.
Physical and spiritual cohabit separate time zones.
Don't keep wondering when is this going to happen.
Unfortunately, time is immaterial in the spirit world.
And like a good joke, timing is everything.
So practice patience.
(ethereal chants)
Remember that whenever you feel this connected
you are holey.
But by working with a temple of connection,
you become wholy.
Or in today's language, holy.
Use this force responsibly,
use it to reconnect with the source.
Because in doing so,
you become a sourcerer.
And speaking of the force,
the word Jedi is derrived the Djed,
the Egyptian pillar representing the supreme life force.
So to be a Jedi in this world,
is to be a master of white light.
And just to prove that anything is possible,
when you work with these principles,
consider that in the United Kingdom,
in 2001, Jedi became an official religion.
(ethereal music)
Do it again?